Working on this polling application was my first real attempt at building an application while being intentional about weaving AI into every stage of the process. Consciously using Artificial Intelligence strategically shaped how I thought about code.

From the start of the project, I ensured that I saw my AI-Native Code Editor as a smart, knowledgeable assistant who just needed a bit of guidance. I used Trae, which has now come to be one of my favorite AI tools for development, especially since my free trial on Cursor expired. I started with a plan for the polling application, using guidelines from the Alx AI for Developers II program: user authentication, poll creation, voting logic, and real-time results.

In the early scaffolding phase, I asked Trae to generate empty files and a skeleton to flesh out later on- a project structure with models, routes and a test folder. Having the base layout ready in minutes freed me to focus on planning for other features. After generating the project directory structure, I started to prompt the AI to add additional features, and also, to recommend advanced features for the application. I made use of context-injection, rule files and others to properly guide the AI tool's output.

I must admit, I hit a few roadblocks during development. A certain time, after I prompted the AI model I used on Trae to implement a feature, I noticed some lines of import at the top of some files were incorrectly written by the AI, and though I initially asked the model to resolve the error, curious to see if it would be able to pinpoint the problem, I eventually had to manually debug it myself. Nevertheless, the AI model was able to debug some of its self-written code, which was kind of impressive. It also helped me generate unit tests, and even drafted the README for my project. 

Although the AI model was excellent for churning up huge blocks of code, I learnt that reviewing AI-generated code still matters; a few times the model unknowingly introduced bugs into functional parts of the code. Also, using AI felt limiting in areas where I needed to see the big picture. I realized AI couldn't do this for me, and I had to first have a good understanding of how the different parts of the application would work together, myself, however abstract the understanding. This was necessary before prompting the AI, in order to craft my prompts properly and be able to review and make corrections or edits to the AI's output.

Overall, this experience changed how I view development with AI. I now see AI tools as highly-knowledgeable assistants, and like I said at the start of this reflection, all they need is a little guidance and well-crafted prompts to produce the required results. AI didn’t replace my effort; it multiplied my results. I spent less time on manually writing each line of code, and more time on the creative parts of building software. 

Essentially, with the right prompting skills, AI becomes a fantastic teammate.
